---
title: Blundering my way through setting up a gitHub Page
layout: post
date: 2019-06-23
---

> *Build a gitHub Page, they said. It will be easy they said.*

At the point of writing this I had already started trying to set it up on my Windows 10 laptop. Emphasis on the 'try'. That means I already have some things installed and nothing is working out. I had put it on hold after running into a host of error messages and 404 errors on the site, Now I'm ready to try again. I'm logging my progress so next time would be a little easier. Also, I have no knowledge on any of the languages used here, so this would be a post for complete noobs. ~~unlike those hundred other 'guide' posts that tricked me into thinking this would be easy~~

My gitHub page repository currently looks like this on the home folder:

LittleHeronCodes.github.io
&vdash; _includes
&vdash; _layouts
&vdash; _posts
&vdash; assets
&vdash; .gitignore
&vdash; 404.html
&vdash; _config.yml
&vdash; about.md
&vdash; Gemfile
&vdash; index.md
&vdash; README.md

To summarize my progress up this far, most of the files were generated by gitHub when I set up the page. Directories such as `_includes`, `_layouts`, `assets` were cloned from one of jekyll's official theme [midnight](https://github.com/pages-themes/midnight). To test the pages in local, I installed Ruby and Jekyll bundler using Rubyinstaller for Windows and followed the Step-by-step guide from official Jekyll [page](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/step-by-step/01-setup/). Running `bundle init` creates a Gemfile, that manages which jekyll version to run.



