---
title: Blundering my way through setting up a gitHub Page
layout: posts
date: 2022-12-21
---

## Introduction

> *Build a GitHub Page, they said. It will be easy they said.*

At the point of writing this I had already taken multiple shots at setting up my own GitHub Page and gotten it more or less running. For an idea of how long it took between setting this up and populating it with actual posts, this repository was created some time during mid-2019.



Also, I have no knowledge on any of the languages used here, so this would be a post for complete noobs. ~~unlike those hundred other 'guide' posts that tricked me into thinking this would be easy~~


## Themes


## Directory structure

My gitHub page repository currently looks like this on the home folder:

```
LittleHeronCodes.github.io
|-- _includes
|-- _layouts
|-- _posts
|-- assets
|-- .gitignore
|-- 404.html
|-- _config.yml
|-- about.md
|-- Gemfile
|-- index.md
|-- README.md
```

To summarize my progress up this far, most of the files were generated by gitHub when I set up the page. Directories such as `_includes`, `_layouts`, `assets` were cloned from one of jekyll's official theme [midnight](https://github.com/pages-themes/midnight). To test the pages in local, I installed Ruby and Jekyll bundler using Rubyinstaller for Windows and followed the Step-by-step guide from official Jekyll [page](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/step-by-step/01-setup/). Running `bundle init` creates a Gemfile which controls jekyll version to use.

After all the necessary files are set up, we can test the page locally by running `bundle exec jekyll serve` from the root directory. After pushing the changes to the remote `master` branch, we can now access the page.

---


