---
layout: posts
title: GitHub Page로 블로그 만들기
date: 2022-12-21
lang: ko
lang-ref: setting-up-github-page
---

> *Build a GitHub Page, they said. It will be easy they said.*

*Github으로 블로그 만들기 쉽다고 누가 그랬던가*

At the point of writing this I had already taken multiple shots at setting up my own GitHub Page and gotten it more or less running. 

Emphasis on the 'try'. That means I already have some things installed and nothing is working out. I had put it on hold after running into a host of error messages and 404 errors on the site, Now I'm ready to try again. 
I'm logging my progress so next time would be a little easier. 
Also, I have no knowledge on any of the languages used here, so this would be a post for complete noobs. ~~unlike those hundred other 'guide' posts that tricked me into thinking this would be easy~~

## Day 1

My gitHub page repository currently looks like this on the home folder:

```
LittleHeronCodes.github.io
|-- _includes
|-- _layouts
|-- _posts
|-- assets
|-- .gitignore
|-- 404.html
|-- _config.yml
|-- about.md
|-- Gemfile
|-- index.md
|-- README.md
```

To summarize my progress up this far, most of the files were generated by gitHub when I set up the page. Directories such as `_includes`, `_layouts`, `assets` were cloned from one of jekyll's official theme [midnight](https://github.com/pages-themes/midnight). To test the pages in local, I installed Ruby and Jekyll bundler using Rubyinstaller for Windows and followed the Step-by-step guide from official Jekyll [page](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/step-by-step/01-setup/). Running `bundle init` creates a Gemfile which controls jekyll version to use.

After all the necessary files are set up, we can test the page locally by running `bundle exec jekyll serve` from the root directory.

---


